# whitepaper
Tidecoin's whitepaper

By introducing the Post-Quantum security signature algorithm, a decentralized currency system Tidecoin  is designed. The operation of the Tidecoin  network is based on mathematical proofs and physical laws. The proof of power consensus and CPU friendly POW algorithm make  Tidecoin  achieving a breakthrough level in decentralization, and security. The currency design enables Tidecoin to run on various types of ubiquitous computing devices, enabling pervasive process of value, even that in multiple worlds.	


Bitcoin is a distributed peer-to-peer electronic payment system maintained by proof of computing power. It can enable any two parties to reach an agreement to pay directly without the participation of a third-party intermediary on the Internet. This technology of Bitcoin is now called blockchain. It is completely based on the principles of cryptography. Proof of work can guarantee that as long as the accumulation of the hash work controlled by honest nodes is greater than the accumulation of the attacker’s, the system is safe. 
This technology avoids the need to use financial institutions as a trusted third party to process electronic payment information in a credit-based model, which can reduce transaction costs and avoid the vulnerability of intermediaries. In addition to payment functions, through limited programming scripts, Bitcoin can implement more complex applications such as multi-signature fund management and e-commerce, etc. 
However, due to the progressing of quantum computer technology, bitcoin’s core crypto algorithm ECDSA is facing the great threat of Quantum computing power. 09/Dec/2020, "Photonic Quantum Computer Displays 'Supremacy' Over Supercomputers", a news from spectrum.ieee.org. It clearly shows that billions value on bitcoin network is facing the threat of Quantum computers. It is time to build a Post-Quantum security cryptocurrency.
Tidecoin is a peer-to-peer Internet currency that enables instant, near-zero cost payments to anyone in the world. Tidecoin is an open source global payment network, and fully decentralized without any central authorities. Features of Post-Quantum security make Tidecoin as a replacement to Bitcoin. Tidecoin's new cryptography algorithm of Falcon is an lattice-based cryptography algorithm and based on the theoretical framework of Gentry, Peikert and Vaikuntanathan. There is no efficient solving algorithm currently known in the general case, even with the help of quantum computers, because the underlying hard problem is the short integer solution problem (SIS) over NTRU lattices.
